I'll have to come up with the rest of the names.
Your manic, dedication to work is very inspiring.
Like it makes me feel like I need to work more.
Like when you're writing all the time and doing all these things,
like you're one of those guys it's like,
it feels like you're always with your foot.
Yeah. I'm kind of furious for work,
but I don't it's it's not what it's what I do,
but it's also what I don't do in that.
I don't have a family and I'm not putting it down. I just don't have that.
I'm just not chipped that way. I never thought of having kids.
I don't have a wife. I don't have friends. Really.
I, most of the people I know, uh,
either pay a salary or a commission to my phone,
doesn't ring my old best friend from, since I was 12 and MCI of the band,
Fu Kasi. He and I talk every Sunday if possible. Uh,
but pass that my phone usually doesn't ring,
unless it's an interview or Heidi going, Hey, you're late. Get over there.
Is that good? It is what it is. Work.
For you like it's.
It's all I know. I've been that way since I was five.
But no, the no friends part.
Well, I don't, I'm not looking for enemies. I'm not looking for a fight.
Of course. I just don't want to come over on the weekend for dinner.
No, no.
I have a good time at dinner with somebody I'm.
Just uncomfortable, then I'll say the wrong thing.
And I just act,
I look at the table full of people go act like them.
You'd be friends with comics because you can't say the wrong thing cause no one
cares.
Yeah. But then you have to then they'll call and say, Hey, come out with us.
We're going and you have to go.
You don't have to go. Why not? Go ahead.
Deadbeat. I'd be a deadbeat friend. Cause that's fine.
I'd never want to go with anyone to do any. You don't have.
To.
But, but we'll look at all the phone calls.
I'm saving. It sounds like you're managing expectations versus, you know,
like it's, it doesn't sound like you don't like friends. It's just,
you don't want expectations.
I, I, you know.
As it's gonna get.
Well also I'm just kind of moody in that. Yeah.
We're going to go out and do this thing.
And then I don't want to see anyone or do anything until
20, 28 and I don't want to cancel. And so,
uh, here, this is my big beef besides hanging out with you. Uh,
my big social, uh, thing is many, many years ago, 2003.
I did a song with William Shatner, bill Shatner on his album.
And we became pals Henry come by the house for Monday
night football.
And he invited me to the house for Monday night football.
He lives a few traffic lights from me and I'm walking up the stairs to
the living room where the big TV is.
And I heard all this laughter and voices and I froze and I was right
at the threshold of the door. And I said, turn back, turn back to her.
I'm turning back Henry.
And he saw me and I'm like, Hey bill.
And I walked in and met all his really cool friends.
And he, at least for me,
bill is one of the nicest people I've ever met in my life.
And it's one of the oddest friendships I have
in that. I've been going to bill Shatner's house every year,
since 2003. So what's that 15 years. Right.
And I will be there this year. I'm on his next record.
He's doing another record. Oh yeah. I did the vocal last year. Rocket man.
Um, this is, uh, it it'll be fun. I'm not gonna, you know,
it's for him to announce it. But um, every great once in a while,
his assistant will contact me. Hey, bill really wants to see you. Uh,
how about like next? You guys are you free for next Wednesday?
Go meet him and the wife and the valley and go eat. I'm like, yeah.
And it's great to see him in his amazing wife.
And I truly value that friendship. I mean,
I look forward to seeing him.
I really enjoy hearing what he's up to because he's always doing like five
things and it's become this thing where I
really look forward to football season. I don't know much about football.
I have no idea what I have back to us. Um, I think they run, I don't know.
I I'd never knew,
but I like going there and it's always the same group of people.
People he's known for like 500 years and they're super nice and I've kind of,
sort of known them for like 15 years.
And it's so odd because I have nothing else like that really
in my life. I'm just a weirdo. Just William Schachner.
Yeah, it's weird.
The other thing I would do once a year and sadly it ended,
but for a few years I would go to Gail Zappa's birthday party on January 1st
because I would play a lot of her husband's music on my radio show, Frank Zappa.
And one time someone in the family wrote me and said, Hey,
thanks for playing dad on the show. I'm like, are you kidding?
I love those records. And then Gail, the mom,
the wife wrote and said, Hey, thank you. And um, you know,
we know who you are here and we like you.
I have a birthday party every January 1st.
Why don't you come up to the house this year or next, next year? Like, you know,
and I did. And that was like three or four years in a row.
I did that until Gail passed away. And you know,
in the more you get there or whatever, it is like two in the afternoon,
two hours before I'm genuinely nervous to go
be in a room full of extraordinarily nice people with
fantastically good food. And there everyone was always so nice to me. And like,
it's like a who's who you walk in. You're like, wow,
it's just all these people you recognize I'm not here to name drop,
but some of the tables I sat out at that thing, I'm like, really,
am I really talking to like really fantastic?
And she was always so nice to me. And like last time I was up there,
one of my books is like in the living room. I'm like, wow.
And when she passed away, I wrote one of the family members. I said,
I am so sorry. Like thank you for the hospitality.
Your mom was so great to me.
And I'm kind of like the rescue dog I'm used to being outside.
So I don't come inside very often.
And I went to that birthday party because they're just the friendliness of that.
I wouldn't as socially nerve-wracking as those things are for me.
I had such respect for that extension of kindness.
I can not disrespect it by not going,
I wouldn't dare the samurai. And he says, you do not distract.
You must be respectful.
Even if it makes you nauseous with social anxiety.
Cause I just don't know what to do. Um,
I can't say no because it's such a nice thing to do for
someone. Yeah. Play. She must not really know how I am. Otherwise.
She never would have invited me. So, um,
but things like that out of sheer politeness and
respect for someone being friendly to me,
I'm kind of a pushover just because I'm like, wow, that was so nice.
I must salute that.
I think it's so good that you're open about your social anxiety and then about
how you feel like being around all these people.
Cause a lot of people in the outside, they see someone like you,
you know, black flag, all your spoken word things,
your books, your, I mean, I, I always go back to, uh, that, uh, uh,
the liar song and your neck was like the size of my waist and you're screaming
and painted red. And like,
you're this crazy intimidating guy in a lot of ways.
So to hear you talk about social anxiety and how weird you feel,
and I think we all can, we all feel that I always feel like that. I mean,
it doesn't matter. I think no matter how famous you get you're,
if you're paying attention, you're going to have an imposter syndrome.
You're you're always going to feel like you don't belong there if you're
actually paying attention. And if you don't, you'll pro you're probably,
you're probably delusional at some sort of a way.
The people who don't right. Like I never, I get to do cool stuff.
And the bit before I go into that on your point,
it's easy for me to be in front of people. That's a very different than,
than being with people. I can be the party,
but going to the party is difficult. Putting me in front of like five people,
5,000 people stage frightened. No, I can't wait to be out there.
Your performer type. Like you've loved that audience. So they showed up like,
are you kidding? I'm a dog with a wagging tail.
I want to get out there and get it going. I can't wait.
I wait the whole day on tour to get out there.
The whole day is about eight o'clock, you know, stage time, um,
being amongst people like going to like a gallery event,
I go see a Shepard Fairey thing or something and people are super nice to me.
And I'm always polite back, but I'm a little nervy, but if they say,
can you get up and speak for five minutes? Oh yeah, I got this.
That's so strange. It is strange, but it's also, um,
it's a way to avoid being with people, be in front of them.
It's a way to be in the room with people, just be the center of attention.
So maybe that's coming from some kind of neediness or some deprivation
as a, you know what I didn't get as a kid. Um,
but that you make a great point about that when you really think, well,
this is where I belong.
I think you lose all the fun of it. Yeah.
And you turn into kind of a jerk. So when I, every 500 years,
I go to one of those premiers, I get invited and you're standing you're,
you're in a room full of tons of really good food. And none of those people eat.
So I just like go in there and come out nine pounds, heavier bunch of shrimp.
Um, I just eat, but you you're. I was at a big Hollywood premiere,
big, big movie years ago. And it's like that one, that one, that one, that one.
And they're all like, ah, it is their lives. And I'm with a buddy of mine.
We blagged in there and we're like, what are we doing here?
This is so cool because we know we shouldn't be here. And after shaking,
Ike Turner's hand 10 minutes later, I'm back in my own kitchen,
going back was so weird.
Like what a surreal evening. And uh,
cause my friend and I were standing next to him and he said,
that looks like I turn, I go, no man, that is, I Turner, he looked,
looked like a human Barracuda. He's like terrifying. I said, let's go, come on.
Like we bought a ticket. We're at the dance. Let's let's go talk to this guy.
He was like, no, no, no, no. I just walked right over there. I said,
you invented rock and roll rocket 88. And he went, yes, I did. It shook my head.
Wow. And I said, he first ever distorted the guitar on tape,
which is kind of true. And he went that's right.
And I fluffed him up and he was all happy to meet me. And I said, Hey,
and here's my friend.
And I brought my friend over and we shook his hand and kind of stood with him
for a minute and went, okay.
So it was probably not going to get any better for us. So let's get out of here.
And so we ate so a few more handfuls of mini burritos and we
bail,
but it was one of those nights where like we weren't supposed to be in there.
And if I ever lose that, yeah. Then just never talked to me again.
Cause I'll just, my head would have disappeared up. Pardon me?
Well,
that anxiety and that insecurity is a big part of the fuel that keeps everything
moving. Super fuel. You analyzing yourself. Yeah.
And anger. Yeah. I'm mad at,
I like fighting and not fighting like in a
ring for me. A lot of things are confrontation.
Like tour is what you think. I can't do 47 shows in 48 days. No,
actually my next tour is 47 and 47. Um,
I have a day off and I have two shows a few days later in one day. So, um,
you think I can't we'll then book 20 more like book 200 more in
the winter and just give me a Lama and a knife. And I make every gig like,
like watch this.
And that's so much of what fuels me like um,
yeah. And like, I come up with these huge ideas for books.
Like that's going to take me five years to write it and it did.
And I just finished it. It's going to the proofreader soon, this epic project.
It's, it's a series of music books. It's 407,000 words.
Yeah. It's a bit much, but so am I,
is this idea pages? It's a, I don't know. It's a lot,
it's mostly on a hard drive, so we don't have to like deforest some park. Um,
but it was an idea I had, I said, okay,
this is going to take a lot of years to execute this idea.
And so like watch me work seven days a week on this thing,
watch me stay up until the next day working on this thing.
And a lot of what fuels me, that's what gets me into auditions.
Like I think, you know, like, Hey audition for this TV show. I'm not an actor.
So am I going? Yeah, outgoing. And I sit in that hallway,
like 20 years older than all these other people.
And they got the good Jim bodies audit, fantastic hair, chiseled bodies.
And they all know each other.
I'm like this weird old man going for the same part.
The only guy not dipped in cologne. I'm like, oh man.
And I go in there and I bomb,
of course I get my parking pass validated and listened to slay on the
way home, take the lump out of my car.